All right, so your mission is
to take that control, that JSX,
do the very hard work of flipping it,
that J to a T, right?
And then what we wanna do is refactor
those prop types into an actual prop and
just kind of get warmed up and
get into it.
Like I said, for
stuff that might not be totally obvious,
try not to look at the docs.
See if you can do it from just
hovering over the editor and
use the actual tools to figure
out how to use the tools.
It's like building your own lightsaber,
right?
Guys, we're changing the file
extension from JSX to TSX.
We're gonna take those
control panel props and
turn them into actual TypeScript types.
We might go for a bonus run and
just add another property so
we can play around with it
a little bit on our name badge.
And then we're gonna try to
figure out what to do with
at least the on change handler, right?
Cuz I told you, hey,
just say it's a string for the name,
I didn't really tell you
what to do with events.
So that was, a little vision quest for
you to kind of look through, but
we'll kind of figure out how to
use the editor to figure that out.
Okay, so
we have some of the answers down here.
Step one, you can either change
the editor or you can get move,
you want your get history to be nicer.
I'll just do it in here for right now.
And so okay, I changed the TSX.
I'm getting,
everything mostly works except for
the fact that it didn't acquiesce to
these prop types were real types.
So the convention, and
I like conventions cuz I don't
wanna come up with my own, right?
And also, one of the hard problems in
computer science is naming things.
So what you will normally see, what is,
I don't know who made this rule, but
the standard convention is
you can type it in line or
you can make a new type,
which is what we're gonna do.
And a lot of times for React components,
you would call it ControlPanelProps.
And that would be the type of the props,
you would pass to the control panel,
right?
And we'll start out by saying that
we know that name is a string and
let's just say that on change for
a hot minute is any.
Now, one of the things I
wanna say early now which is,
if you ever feel tempted to use any,
you should avoid that.
Any is infectious, one you have one any,
anything that any touches basically
becomes any and now you have signed up for
a life where you do most of the work
of having TypeScript in your React app and
get only 60% of the benefits.
So as soon as an any is entering, it just
everything an any touches turns to an any.
So we'll do that for a minute, there'll
be, I'll like sneak a few anys in there,
to set up exercises and we'll try to
eradicate them over our time together.
So we'll save that.
And then all I have to do at this point,
if you didn't like that set of curly
braces in the other one,
you just do ControlPanel props.
And this is now officially
a TypeScript component.
It has some extra stuff I don't need, like
this doesn't do anyone any favors anymore,
which means I don't need this.
And that, for a very simple component,
which if you think about your app,
it's a few complicated pieces and then the
way the satellites are around the earth,
a satellite of smaller pieces, right?
We can have this kind of in place,
which leads us to our next challenge,
which is what do we do
about OnChange here?
So my challenge to you, yeah, [INAUDIBLE].
>> Can I answer?
>> Sure.
>> Change event handler
HTML input element.
>> Let's hover over that.
And yeah, we can see that
the default type of an onChange.
So, what do we do about our onChange?
Well, we look over reacted to the default
element and we steal that, right?
So it's saying like,
an input elements onChange is this type,
React change event handler on
an HTML input element or undefined.
Yoink, copy, Paste.
Boom, right?
We just used our editor to figure out what
the type should be on that one, right?
And so a lot of times if I'm like,
I don't know what a form should be,
you can mostly kind of, I'll make
the element and I'll figure it out, Mark.
>> Is there a reason why we
are using type over interface here?
Is it a different use case?
>> Yes, I am spiritually prepared for
this question.
One moment, please.
So, the question was, why are we
using type instead of interface?
And so, a while back there was
a lot more of a difference
between a type and an interface.
In modern versions of TypeScript,
there are less differences
between types and interfaces.
An interface is kind of like
a class where you can extend it and
kind of override individual properties.
A type is a little bit more constrained,
but
you can kind of use it with what we'll see
later are like generics or type variables.
A little bit easier when you're
combining stuff together.
If one were to Google this,
you would find probably,
I would say 80% of this
advice saying that for
public facing things where you want
someone to be able to extend it,
to be able to pull it
forward using interfaces for
public libraries, but for
internal stuff using types.
You will also find some
arguing the opposite.
It doesn't matter so much.
Generally speaking, my heuristic then
given the private public kind of peace and
extending versus using unions and
intersections,
which we'll see in a little bit.
I tend to use types unless I
explicitly need an interface.
There's little places where combining two
types that have an overriding property
where it can become a little tricky and
then I'll grab for an interface.
But my heuristic is to use types.
However, if I were to go to somebody else,
join a new team, and in their
application they're using interfaces
everywhere, you know what I start using?
Interfaces, right?
Yeah.
>> Sorry, what exactly is an interface?
>> So interface, if I wanted to change
this type from a type to an interface,
I would change this word to interface.
I would get rid of that equal sign,
no red squigglies, right?
The difference is if I wanted to,
I can say interface,
ForAdminsOnly, I can do this extends.
>> It's kind of a class.
>> Yeah, and I could say, it's always
got all the other properties but
I could also say like, Right,
so now this has name which is a string
on change with an event handler and
is admin has to be set to true, right?
If I wanted to do this with types,
it would be like,
That, right?
So, they both get me the same effect.
It's usually when these have overlapping
properties or stuff like that,
stuff is a little bit different
in the actual implementations.
But generally speaking,
these will do functionally the same thing.
So my rule of thumb, so the question was.
Do I always leave them in this file, or
do I put them into a globally
available definition file.
The answer to that question that either or
question is yes.
Generally speaking,
I cuz if I put them into a data ts file,
I think I have an empty
one sitting over here.
Any types that I put into this file and
later examples will have stuff in here.
Mostly cuz I don't wanna clutter stuff up,
but in a larger app,
I will usually put the very
commonly used models.
So the thing I work on has workflows and
workflows have events, and
those are used all over the place.
It's the whatever they're the core
things that your app is showing.
If was Twitter tweets,
those types that I'm using everywhere.
I don't want to import those constantly,
so I will move them into this file.
That said, I personally and this is
definitely a subjective opinion thing.
Tend to start them out in the file,
cuz, I don't need to be
littering the global namespace.
With all these types that are only ever
actually getting used in one file.
So, normally a lot of my types
will start out in a file, and
when I find myself getting very
annoyed importing them places.
I will begin to break them out, and
move them into definition file, so,
it's usually a refactor for
me at some point.
>> Excuse me, I also have one more.
If I recall correctly,
another difference between interface and
type is that for typed you can or
the types when you pass it in.
So especially if it's helpful in Redux,
I believe.
I don't think you can do
that with interfaces.
>> Yeah, I don't think so, it's one of
those things where since I predominantly
use types of specially for that.
For primitives I wouldn't straight I
think about for very simple things.
Like a type makes total sense because
you can say this one or that one.
There's really interesting
things you do with unions.
It's like they are,
they have an overlap about 60 or 80%.
There's a chart that I have
a broken link to, that'll fix.
That shows most of the check boxes
are green on both of them with one or
two smaller edge cases across both.
I think the more important thing
is consistency in your code base.
I choose to use types, but like I said,
they have certain limitations.
And some edge cases interfaces
are gonna have certain limitations and
the other one.
But I think consistency is probably
the answer but there is not necessarily.
Like this is right and
this is wrong despite what blog
posts on the internet will tell you.
I have been in code bases since I do both.
Okay, so we've got on change handled.
Again, if I needed to know
what a form element was, look,
it's a form event handler.
There are a bunch of these,
I have a link in the notes slide
we can just see all of them.
But generally speaking, I do wanna
encourage you, rather than looking at
the list to kind of our habit is
going to be learning through doing.
Learning through getting
hints from our editor.
But these are basically just if you
like Command click you can eventually
get to the definition and
kind of see everything I like.
Obviously the types for
reactor obviously complex.
But you can kind of go through and
see that they're all kind of going
over the regular dom events.
Cuz events have different properties,
only ones based on input
elements have a value on the event
target and stuff along those lines.
So it's basically trying to figure
out what you have on that event and
what you don't.
Cuz not all events in
the DOM are created equal,
some of them have different properties.
Like mouse moves have the mouse position,
while form submits have
the target of the form.
So it basically fills in all those for
you.
So generally speaking, if I don't
know if I need to use an element,
I need something that will match that.
I will usually just even create
that element hover over and
steal the answer is a lot of
times a lot easier for me.
Than stopping when I'm doing pulling up
Safari because I will get distracted and
I will look at guitars.
So this is a lot of times easier to
kind of keep that train of thought and
focus in there.
Yeah.
>> So for
my on change I assumed it was a function.
I just did the open and
close parenthesis and
arrow function to void and
that seemed to work.
>> That will work as long as you
don't seek to use the event in it.
Because it'll be like JavaScript will take
more arguments that a function uses and
not just ignore them.
In JavaScript, you took a function and
took two arguments and past it.
Nine, it'll use the first two and
ignore the other seven.
And so it'll work until you try to
use that event and it'll be like,
I don't know what you're talking about.
Type script is kinda cool,
it's got the same type system as OCaml.
You're like, cool.
Who amongst us has write
OCaml in our free time.
One of the nice things is instead of Java,
if you've ever seen that
enterprise FizzBuzz meme.
Where they have to make
Abstract Factory abstract class for
everything like TypeScript.
As long as it roughly matches what you're
looking for, TypeScript is totally okay.
That's kind of endless what we think about
what JavaScript too, if you're saying.
This thing should have a first name and a
last name, and that's the type full name.
If you pass another just regular old
JavaScript object that has a first name
and a last name property.
TypeScript, like thumbs up,
even though you didn't
explicitly say it was that type.
And so like,
you can get away with stuff until you
do something that's actually going to.
Like it's about as forceful as it
needs to be and no more than that.
Until you try to use it, and
we'll actually see that in another
example I believe, later on too.
But yeah,
you could have done event is even
like HTMLElement, and
actually should be void.
And you can try to write your own,
but generally speaking,
it's super nice especially if
you're gonna pass it through.
Just to be like, hey, I'm expecting this
function that matches what I'm going to
pass it to is better than
trying to write your own types.
That mostly match up, because eventually,
this will lead to sadness.
Eventually, you'll be like
slightly off in one use case.
And then you have to stop what
you're doing and pay down your debt.
>> This assignment stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> One other thing, do you do it
in the interface slash type above,
just in case you want to add
more props than name on change?
>> Yeah.
>> Later on?
You can see that if I was in lining
it in here.
>> Yeah.
>> And have I taken this to its natural
conclusion before breaking it out,
of course I have.
But you can see that trying to both
have the properties in here and
then also to find the types.
>> It gets, yeah.
>> It gets ridiculous, and then if I ever
do need to export that out somewhere,
guess why I end up with?
>> Yeah.
>> So for
me normally my workflow is every
part of me wants to do it in line.
And most parts of me know
that I will regret it.
And then so, if it's early in the day,
my willpower and
I can resist the marshmallow on the table.
I will break it out into a type later in
the day, things get a little bit fast and
loose.
And then I make poor choices and
inline it, but
then I always eventually have to pull
it out on a long enough timeline.
If it's just one argument,
you don't want to do all that extra work.
Yeah, sure put it in there.
But generally speaking,
I will try to break it out into a type I
really wanna change this back to a type.
I also wanna change this back
to [LAUGH] I wanna change all of
the things I was just talking and
typing at the same time.
The nice part is I can also
just grab it from here.
If I hit tab, I can auto import it.
From react
>> But it's a generic righ,so I think we.
>> Yeah, I was hoping the autocomplete
was gonna pull it in I got distracted
for a minute.
Didn't auto import, so
I was just gonna say react.
Cool, all right, so
that's back where I wanna to be.
Pull this out too.
Let's go ahead and
immediately regret previous mistakes here.
Type NameBadgeProps pass in that name.
And if I want to say
something that's optional,
I can just say like greeting?
And if it exists it should be a string.
Now if I look over at this I'll see
that it can be a string or undefined.
And what's really cool about this is,
if I ever try to use greeting like it
exists, TypeScript will yell at me.
Hey, that could be undefined,
right, and so
if it's something that
that matters like strings.
It'll just coerce into an empty
string a lot of times, no big deal.
But if I'm trying to actually
use that value in some of this,
definitely having a string or
something along those lines it will force
me to confirm that it exists first.
And we'll actually see that again in
a little bit of a later example two
where we'll see that like I can't use
things unless I confirm that they exist.
And some other like features along
those lines and then after I
confirm exists then I'm free to do
whatever I want so on and so forth, yeah.
>> I always had that confusion about,
since we're using the question
mark optional TypeScript, right?
Technically the need for null for
now goes away completely.
We use undefined as the absence of value,
right?
>> Yeah, I will sometimes
use null is like explicit.
Yeah, like I use no in TypeScript the way
I'm supposed to use now that I haven't
always used before,
which is like explicitly nothing.
>> Because sometimes I've seen people
make mistakes when, let's say,
you mark it optional or
something from libraries marked optional.
And then instead of just using I guess
a truth value if that thing somebody
explicitly does equals null that's
>> Yeah.
>> That it's gonna fail but, but
just because it's a silly mistake,
>> Yeah.
>> But okay, so thank you.
>> Yeah, and we'll know that you can't
pass it null like if I tried to pass
a null in here, I get yelled at, right.
It's like string or undefined.
No zeros.
No falses.
Right, like string or undefined.
Undefined can be falsely and
that can be a check, but
it will know that case
like I will limit it down.
We'll see a few other examples where it's
like things I normally would have done
a whole bunch of type guards for
like in regular JavaScript.
If this type of this, if it's that,
if it's the other thing, right?
I don't wanna talk about how
many times I've gotten bitten
by the fact that zero is false.
I'm not interested in talking about that.
It will save me for that.
So we'll actually see this kind of like,
I wanted to point out now so
that when we see it,
we're already mentally aware of it.
And yeah,
now I can pass this in I can say like and
we got to pass them to the props too.
Look at autocomplete.
Yes, right in this case like
I don't get yelled at because
like passing an empty string into
an HTM element is fine, right?
Or undefined coerces into
an empty string in this case.
So that's totally okay.
But if I tried to use it for
some other value, we will get yelled at.
But you'll see that as I was
starting to use this component,
especially if you're making
like this is all in the file.
If I was then using this
component somewhere else,
I implicitly have documentation
on this component, right?
I can't really use it wrong, try me,
it is harder to use it wrong.
How about that?
And so
like implicitly you get documentation,
implicitly you get safety checks as
I use this component other places.